MERIDIAN CLOUD PLATFORM
Technical Reference Manual
Version 4.2 — Effective Date: January 2026

Issued by Meridian Technologies Inc.
1200 Innovation Drive, Suite 800, Austin, TX 78701
support.meridiancloud.com | docs.meridiancloud.com | status.meridiancloud.com

This document is the authoritative technical reference for all customers, administrators,
developers, and operations personnel using Meridian Cloud Platform (MCP) services.
It supersedes all earlier versions of the Meridian Technical Reference Manual.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
TABLE OF CONTENTS
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Section 1   Introduction and Platform Overview
Section 2   Account Management and Authentication
Section 3   Storage Services (MCP-OBJ)
Section 4   Compute Services (MCP-VM)
Section 5   Database Services (MCP-RDS)
Section 6   Networking and Content Delivery
Section 7   Security and Compliance Controls
Section 8   Billing and Cost Management
Section 9   Service Level Agreements
Section 10  Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity
Section 11  API Reference
Section 12  Support and Incident Management
Section 13  Compliance and Data Governance
Section 14  Troubleshooting Guide
Section 15  Glossary of Terms

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION AND PLATFORM OVERVIEW
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

1.1 About Meridian Cloud Platform

Meridian Cloud Platform (MCP) is a comprehensive cloud infrastructure service that provides
organizations of all sizes with scalable, secure, and highly reliable computing resources.
Originally launched in 2018 as a regional compute provider, MCP has grown into a full-stack
cloud offering serving over 40,000 enterprise customers across 32 countries. The platform
spans nine global Availability Zones organized into five geographic Regions covering North
America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific corridor.

MCP is engineered on three core principles: operational transparency, predictable economics,
and security by default. Every pricing schedule, SLA commitment, and security configuration
default is documented in this manual and in the companion MCP Policy Reference (separate
publication). Wherever terms in this manual appear in italics on first use, their definitions
can be found in Section 15 (Glossary of Terms).

1.2 Platform Architecture

MCP is organized into three layers:

Core Infrastructure Layer
The physical foundation of MCP: servers, network switches, optical interconnects, and
storage arrays owned and operated exclusively by Meridian Technologies Inc. Customers
interact with this layer only indirectly; it is fully managed by Meridian's operations
teams and is continuously monitored via the internal Meridian Operations Center (MOC)
operating 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.

Platform Services Layer
The virtualization, orchestration, and data-plane layer that exposes compute, storage,
networking, and database primitives to customers via the MCP Control Plane API (see
Section 11 for full API specifications). Platform Services are the primary interface
for programmatic access, automation, and integration with third-party tools. All
operations available in the MCP Web Console are also available programmatically via
the Control Plane API.

Managed Application Layer
Optional higher-level services — including managed Kubernetes clusters (MCP-K8s),
managed relational databases (MCP-RDS), and global content delivery (MCP-CDN) —
built on top of Platform Services. These services are provisioned through the same
Control Plane API or through the MCP Web Console. Managed Application services
include software lifecycle management (patching, minor version upgrades, failover)
performed by Meridian on the customer's behalf.

1.3 Global Infrastructure: Regions and Availability Zones

MCP operates nine Availability Zones (AZs) grouped into five Regions:

  Region Name       | Code      | Availability Zones
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  US East (Primary) | us-east-1 | AZ-USE1, AZ-USE2
  US West           | us-west-1 | AZ-USW1, AZ-USW2
  EU Central        | eu-cent-1 | AZ-EUC1, AZ-EUC2
  EU West           | eu-west-1 | AZ-EUW1
  Asia Pacific      | ap-pac-1  | AZ-APC1, AZ-APC2

Each Availability Zone is housed in a physically distinct data center building, connected
to its sibling AZs within the same Region over redundant dark fiber paths. Network
round-trip latency between AZs in the same Region is typically 1–4 ms at the 50th
percentile and below 8 ms at the 99th percentile. Inter-Region latency is higher and
depends on geography; US↔EU links typically fall in the 85–130 ms range, while
US↔Asia-Pacific links range from 140 to 200 ms.

All nine AZs share a common network backbone operated by Meridian. Cross-AZ and
cross-Region data transfer rates are published in Section 8 (Billing and Cost
Management).

1.4 Service Tiers

MCP offers four service tiers designed to address different organizational scales and
compliance requirements:

Starter Tier
Intended for small teams, individual developers, and proof-of-concept workloads.
Includes 500 GB of MCP-OBJ object storage, 4 virtual CPUs (vCPUs), 16 GB of RAM
allocated across on-demand instances, and 1 TB of monthly outbound data transfer.
No minimum commitment. Priced at $149 per month. No formal Service Level Agreement
is provided on the Starter tier; service is delivered on a best-effort basis.

Professional Tier
For growing organizations with production workloads requiring reliability guarantees.
Includes 2 TB of object storage, 16 vCPUs available for on-demand use, 64 GB RAM,
5 TB monthly data transfer, and access to all managed services. Requires a 12-month
minimum commitment. Baseline price $799 per month. Full SLA schedule applies — see
Section 9 for details.

Enterprise Tier
For large-scale, mission-critical deployments. Includes 5 TB of object storage,
64 vCPUs, 256 GB RAM, 20 TB monthly data transfer, a dedicated 10 Gbps network egress
port, and a named Technical Account Manager (TAM). Custom pricing with volume discounts;
the baseline starting price is $4,500 per month. Full SLA schedule with enhanced credit
percentages applies. See Section 9 for the Enterprise SLA schedule.

Enterprise Plus Tier
For organizations in compliance-intensive industries such as financial services,
healthcare, and government. Includes everything in Enterprise, plus dedicated hardware
tenancy (no shared physical hosts), FIPS 140-2 Level 3 hardware security modules for
key management, quarterly compliance audit reports, and a minimum 99.995% uptime SLA
on core compute and storage services. Custom pricing; contact the Meridian Enterprise
Sales team at enterprise@meridiancloud.com.

1.5 How This Manual Is Organized

Each section of this manual corresponds to a major product area or operational concern.
Cross-references between sections are explicit and formatted as "see Section N" or
"refer to Section N". All pricing referenced in feature sections (e.g., the storage
overage rates in Section 3) are defined in detail in Section 8; all SLA credit
percentages referenced in feature sections are defined in Section 9. Reading the
manual front-to-back is recommended for new administrators; experienced operators may
jump directly to the relevant section using the Table of Contents.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 2: ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT AND AUTHENTICATION
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

2.1 Account Hierarchy

Every MCP account is structured in a three-level hierarchy:

Root Account
The master account created when an organization subscribes to MCP. The Root Account
holder has unrestricted access to all resources, all billing information, and all
sub-account management functions. Best practice strongly recommends using the Root
Account exclusively for billing administration and organizational setup tasks. Create
one or more IAM Admin sub-accounts (see below) for all day-to-day operational work,
and protect the Root Account credentials with the strongest available authentication
method. See Section 7.4 for the principle of least privilege guidelines.

Sub-Accounts (IAM Users)
Created within a Root Account and managed through the Identity and Access Management
(IAM) module. Sub-accounts are scoped to specific resource groups and permission sets
defined by MCP Policy Language (MPL) documents. The maximum number of sub-accounts
varies by tier: 10 (Starter), 50 (Professional), 250 (Enterprise and Enterprise Plus).

Service Accounts
Machine-readable credential sets — API key pairs or short-lived JWT tokens — associated
with a specific application or automation workload. Service Accounts cannot log into
the MCP Web Console and cannot be designated as billing contacts. They must carry the
minimum required permissions, following the principle of least privilege as described
in Section 7.4 (Principle of Least Privilege). Service Account API keys should be
rotated every 90 days; see Section 2.2 for key rotation instructions.

2.2 Authentication Methods

MCP supports four distinct authentication mechanisms, listed in descending order of
security strength:

Hardware Security Key (FIDO2/WebAuthn)
Requires physical interaction with a registered hardware authenticator device, such as
a YubiKey 5 NFC, Google Titan Security Key, or any other FIDO2/WebAuthn-compliant
device. This method is the most phishing-resistant option available. It is required
for Root Account logins on Enterprise Plus tier and is optionally available on
Enterprise. If a hardware key is lost or unavailable, a backup TOTP code may be used
after verifying identity through the MCP Security Verification Process (contact support
for details). Hardware keys must be registered before they can be used; a maximum of
five hardware keys may be registered per user account.

Time-Based One-Time Password (TOTP)
Compatible with any RFC 6238-compliant authenticator application, including Google
Authenticator, Authy, Microsoft Authenticator, and 1Password. TOTP codes are 6 digits
and valid for 30 seconds. MCP accepts codes up to 60 seconds past their generation
time to accommodate minor clock drift. TOTP is required for all non-service-account
logins on Professional and Enterprise tiers, and is optional (but strongly recommended)
on Starter tier.

Single Sign-On via SAML 2.0 or OIDC
Delegates authentication entirely to your organization's Identity Provider (IdP) such
as Okta, Azure Active Directory, or Ping Identity. When SSO is configured, users do
not set a separate MCP password; they authenticate through the IdP's login flow and
receive a session token from MCP upon successful IdP verification. SSO is supported
on Professional, Enterprise, and Enterprise Plus. Detailed IdP configuration
instructions, attribute mapping requirements, and troubleshooting guidance are
contained in the separate MCP IAM Administrator Guide.

API Key Pair (Access Key ID + Secret Access Key)
Used exclusively by Service Accounts and programmatic access via the SDK or direct
API calls. The Secret Access Key is displayed only once at creation time and cannot
be retrieved afterward; it must be stored securely in a secrets management system
(e.g., Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, or a similarly robust tool). If a key is lost,
it must be revoked and a new pair generated. API keys should be rotated on a 90-day
schedule. MCP provides an automated rotation reminder: when an API key is 75 days
old, a rotation reminder is sent to the security notification contacts on the account.

2.3 IAM Policies and the MCP Policy Language (MPL)

Access control within MCP follows an Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) model.
Permissions are expressed in MCP Policy Language (MPL), a JSON-based syntax. Each
MPL policy document contains one or more statements, and each statement comprises:

  Effect       : "Allow" or "Deny". A Deny statement always takes precedence over an
                 Allow statement, regardless of the order of evaluation.
  Principal    : The Sub-Account or Service Account identifier the statement governs.
                 May use wildcards to match patterns.
  Action       : The API action(s) the statement governs, expressed in the format
                 "service:Action" (e.g., "storage:PutObject", "compute:LaunchInstance",
                 "iam:CreateUser"). Wildcards are supported: "storage:*" permits all
                 storage actions.
  Resource     : The specific resource ARN(s) or wildcard patterns the statement covers.
                 Example: "arn:mcp:storage:us-east-1::my-bucket/logs/*" scopes a policy
                 to the "logs/" prefix within the bucket "my-bucket".
  Condition    : Optional predicates that further constrain when the statement applies.
                 Supported condition operators include: IpAddress, NotIpAddress,
                 DateGreaterThan, DateLessThan, StringEquals, StringLike, Bool (for
                 checking whether MFA was used), and more.

Policy evaluation order: Explicit Deny → Explicit Allow → Implicit Deny. Any API call
not explicitly permitted by at least one matching Allow statement is denied. Policies
are evaluated in full; there is no short-circuit once the first Allow is found,
because a subsequent Deny statement may override it.

2.4 Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Requirements

MFA enforcement rules by tier:

  Starter      : MFA is optional. The console will prompt users to enable it but does
                 not block login if it is absent.
  Professional : MFA is required for Root Account console logins. Sub-account logins
                 should enable MFA; MFA enforcement on sub-accounts is at the account
                 administrator's discretion.
  Enterprise   : MFA is required for all console logins (Root and all Sub-Accounts).
                 Service Accounts are exempt as they cannot log into the console.
  Enterprise Plus: MFA is required for all console logins and must be hardware-key-based
                 for Root Account and any Sub-Account with IAM administrator permissions.

If an account administrator disables the MFA enforcement policy for a tier that mandates
it, MCP logs a configuration-risk event and sends a security notification to all security
contacts on the account within one hour. Disabling MFA enforcement on Enterprise or
Enterprise Plus may affect compliance attestations. Refer to Section 13.3 for the impact
on SOC 2 and ISO 27001 attestation status.

2.5 Session Management and Token Lifecycle

Console sessions expire after 12 hours of inactivity. The inactivity timer resets on
each user interaction (mouse click, form submission, API call through the console).
After expiry, the user must re-authenticate.

JWT tokens issued for API access have a configurable Time-To-Live (TTL) between
15 minutes (minimum) and 60 minutes (maximum), with a default of 30 minutes. The MCP
SDK automatically refreshes tokens before expiry when the session has not exceeded
its maximum lifetime (8 hours). After 8 hours, the SDK requires explicit
re-authentication.

API key pairs issued to Service Accounts do not expire automatically but carry a
recommended rotation period of 90 days. An account-level policy can enforce mandatory
key rotation by blocking API calls from keys older than a configurable threshold.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 3: STORAGE SERVICES (MCP-OBJ)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

3.1 Object Storage Overview

MCP-OBJ is the platform's primary unstructured data store. It is an Amazon S3-compatible
object storage service, meaning any tool or library that speaks the S3 API can interact
with MCP-OBJ without code changes beyond the endpoint URL and credential configuration.
MCP-OBJ is organized into Buckets, logical containers whose names must be globally unique
within a Region and must comply with DNS naming rules (lowercase alphanumeric characters
and hyphens only; 3–63 characters; must not begin or end with a hyphen).

Objects within a bucket may be up to 5 TB in size individually. A single PUT operation
(simple upload) supports objects up to 5 GB. Objects larger than 5 GB must be uploaded
using the Multipart Upload API, described in Section 11.3. Objects are identified by
a key, which is an arbitrary UTF-8 string up to 1,024 bytes; the key functions as a
file path and may contain "/" characters to simulate a directory hierarchy.

3.2 Storage Quotas by Service Tier

Each service tier includes a base storage quota for MCP-OBJ. Storage usage above the
tier-included quota incurs overage charges, whose rates are defined in Section 8.2
(Storage Overage Billing). The included quotas are:

  Starter Tier      :    500 GB included object storage
  Professional Tier :      2 TB included object storage
  Enterprise Tier   :      5 TB included object storage
  Enterprise Plus   : Custom quota, negotiated per Order Form

Storage usage is measured as the sum of all object sizes across all buckets in the
account within the Region. Object metadata, bucket-level configuration objects, and
multipart upload parts all count toward storage usage.

Notification Thresholds and the 72-Hour Grace Period

When an account's storage consumption approaches or exceeds its included quota, MCP
delivers automated alerts via email (to the billing contact) and to any configured
operational notification channels (Slack, PagerDuty, OpsGenie, or generic webhook).
The notification schedule is:

  80% of quota   : Informational alert. No action required; monitor usage trends.
  95% of quota   : Warning alert. Recommend reducing usage or upgrading the tier.
  100% of quota  : Critical alert. A 72-hour grace period begins at the moment the
                   quota is reached. During the grace period, write operations (PUT,
                   COPY, Multipart Upload Complete) continue to succeed. The account
                   accrues overage charges from the instant the quota was exceeded.
  Grace period expiry: If the account's storage usage has not dropped below the quota
                   within 72 hours of first exceeding it, new write operations will
                   be throttled. Throttled PUTs return HTTP 507 Insufficient Storage.
                   Read operations (GET, HEAD, LIST) are never throttled.

For the per-GB overage billing rates that apply during and after the grace period,
including the exact rates for each tier and the billing proration rules, see Section 8.2.
For the SLA credit that applies if MCP fails to deliver the 72-hour grace period on time,
see Section 9.2.

NOTE — SPANNING ANSWER 1:
  The question "What happens when an Enterprise customer exceeds their 5 TB storage
  quota, including the grace period behavior and the per-GB monthly overage charge?"
  requires combining Section 3.2 (quota limits, notification schedule, and grace period)
  with Section 8.2 (the $0.019/GB overage rate for Enterprise and the proration rules).
  A retriever that finds only one of these sections will produce an incomplete answer.

3.3 Storage Classes

MCP-OBJ provides four storage classes optimized for distinct access frequency and
cost profiles. The durability of all classes is eleven nines (99.999999999%), achieved
through automatic three-way replication across all Availability Zones within the Region:

Standard Storage Class
Designed for frequently accessed data where retrieval latency must be minimal and
there is no minimum storage duration. This is the default storage class when no
other class is specified at upload time. Monthly availability: 99.99%. Retrieved
at full speed; no per-GB retrieval fee. All tiers' included storage quotas are
denominated in Standard class storage. Standard storage is required for active
working data, CDN origin objects, and objects that need to be modified frequently.

Standard-IA (Infrequent Access) Storage Class
For data accessed less than once per month on average. Availability: 99.9% monthly.
Minimum storage duration: 30 days (objects deleted or transitioned before 30 days
are charged for a full 30-day period). Retrieval fee: $0.01 per GB. Priced at
approximately 60% of the Standard class monthly storage rate. Appropriate for
backups of active data, regulatory archives that require periodic retrieval, and
files older than 30 days that are rarely requested.

Archive Storage Class
For data accessed at most a few times per year. Availability: 99.5% monthly.
Minimum storage duration: 90 days. Before an archived object can be read, it must
be restored to Standard class. Restoration options: Standard Restore (3–12 hours;
$0.03/GB fee) or Expedited Restore (1–5 hours; $0.09/GB fee). See Section 8.4
for restore fee details and Section 10.3 for the Restore API. Priced at
approximately 25% of the Standard class rate.

Archive Deep Storage Class
For compliance-mandated data that must be retained for years and accessed only under
audit or legal discovery scenarios. Availability: 99.0% monthly. Minimum storage
duration: 180 days. Restoration via Bulk Restore only (12–48 hours; $0.0025/GB fee).
Objects in Archive Deep cannot be read without an active restore job. Priced at
approximately 10% of Standard class rate. This is the most cost-effective storage
class for cold compliance archives.

Transitioning objects between storage classes is automatic when Lifecycle Rules are
configured (see Section 3.6). Manual reclassification is performed via a COPY
operation specifying the desired storage class in the x-mcp-storage-class header.

3.4 Bucket Versioning and Object Locking

Versioning
Bucket versioning is an optional per-bucket feature that, when enabled, retains all
previous versions of every object in the bucket. Each version is assigned a unique
VersionId string. Overwriting an existing key creates a new version with a new VersionId;
it does not delete the previous version. Deleting an object key (without specifying a
VersionId) places a Delete Marker on the key, making the object invisible to standard
GET requests that do not specify a VersionId — the underlying data is not removed.

To permanently delete a specific version, an authorized caller must issue a DELETE
request that specifies the VersionId. This requires the
storage:DeleteObjectVersion permission, which is distinct from the basic
storage:DeleteObject permission. Versioning cannot be disabled once enabled; it can
only be suspended (new writes are unversioned; existing versions are retained).

Object Locking (WORM — Write Once Read Many)
Object Locking is available on Enterprise and Enterprise Plus tiers. When enabled on
a bucket, it prevents any version of an object from being overwritten or deleted for
the duration of a configurable lock period. Two lock modes are available:

  Governance Mode: An IAM user holding the storage:BypassGovernanceLock permission
  can override the lock and delete the object before the retention date expires.
  This mode is suitable for internal retention policies where an administrator may
  need to make exceptions.

  Compliance Mode: No user — including the Root Account — can delete or overwrite a
  locked object before its retention date. Compliance mode is irreversible for the
  duration of the lock period. This mode satisfies requirements from regulations such
  as SEC Rule 17a-4, FINRA, and certain HIPAA documentation controls.

Object Locking interacts with the backup and disaster recovery capabilities described
in Section 10 (Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity). A locked object in
Compliance mode cannot be removed even during cross-Region replication conflicts.

3.5 Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

CORS rules can be defined at the bucket level to permit web applications served from
different origins to access bucket contents via browser-based JavaScript. A CORS rule
specifies:
  - AllowedOrigins : A list of origin URLs (e.g., "https://app.example.com") or
                     wildcards ("*" permits any origin).
  - AllowedMethods : Which HTTP methods are permitted (GET, PUT, POST, DELETE, HEAD).
  - AllowedHeaders : Which request headers browsers may include.
  - MaxAgeSeconds  : How long browsers may cache the preflight response (0–86400 seconds;
                     default 0 means no caching).
  - ExposeHeaders  : Which response headers browsers are permitted to access.

MCP evaluates CORS rules in order; the first rule whose AllowedOrigins and AllowedMethods
match the incoming request is applied. If no rule matches, the request is served without
CORS headers, and the browser will block it under the same-origin policy. CORS rules
apply only to browser-originated requests; server-to-server API calls are not affected.

3.6 Lifecycle Rules for Automated Storage Management

Lifecycle Rules allow account administrators to define policies that automatically
transition objects to cheaper storage classes or delete them based on age, prefix, or
object tag filters. A Lifecycle Rule comprises:

  Filter       : A prefix (e.g., "logs/"), an object tag (e.g., project=alpha), or a
                 combination. An empty filter applies the rule to all objects in the bucket.
  Transitions  : One or more transition actions, each specifying a target storage class
                 and a transition trigger (Days since object creation or Days since
                 becoming a non-current version).
  Expiration   : An optional expiration action that permanently deletes objects or removes
                 non-current versions after a specified number of days.

Example Lifecycle Rule for a log archive pipeline:
  1. Transition objects with prefix "logs/" from Standard to Standard-IA after 30 days.
  2. Transition those objects from Standard-IA to Archive after a further 60 days.
  3. Delete Archive objects after 730 days (2 years).
  4. Delete non-current versions older than 7 days, keeping the 3 most recent.

Lifecycle Rules are processed once per day at 00:00 UTC. Rule changes become effective
within 24 hours of being saved. Transitions are not instantaneous; a batch process
evaluates eligibility and moves objects in the background; objects are available for
reads throughout the transition.

3.7 Storage Service SLA Reference

MCP-OBJ Standard class is covered by the Regional Storage SLA with a 99.99% monthly
uptime commitment. Standard-IA carries a 99.9% SLA. Archive and Archive Deep each
carry a 99.5% availability SLA (measured as the ability to initiate a restore request).

When MCP-OBJ does not meet these thresholds in a calendar month, Meridian Technologies
issues service credits to the affected customer. For the complete credit schedule —
including the percentage of monthly charges credited for each tier of downtime, the
claim submission deadline, and the claims process — see Section 9.2.

NOTE — SPANNING ANSWER 2:
  The question "What SLA credit percentage applies to an MCP-OBJ Standard outage lasting
  between 1 and 4 hours, and what is the process for submitting a credit claim?" requires
  combining Section 3.7 (which establishes which SLA tier applies to Standard storage
  and refers to Section 9.2) with Section 9.2 (which defines the actual credit percentages
  for the Regional Storage SLA and the full claims procedure). A retriever finding only
  Section 3.7 will know there is a credit but will not know the percentage or the process.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 4: COMPUTE SERVICES (MCP-VM)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

4.1 Virtual Machine Instance Families

MCP-VM provides on-demand virtual machines in five instance families, each optimized
for a different workload class:

General Purpose (g-series)
A balanced vCPU-to-RAM ratio of 1:4. Suitable for the widest variety of workloads
including web servers, application servers, CI/CD build agents, and development
environments. Sizes range from g1.nano (0.5 vCPU, 2 GB RAM) through g6.48xlarge
(192 vCPUs, 768 GB RAM). The g-series is the recommended starting point for teams
that have not yet profiled their workload.

Compute Optimized (c-series)
High vCPU:RAM ratio (1:2). Intended for CPU-bound workloads such as batch data
processing, scientific simulations, game server hosting, and high-throughput API
services. Sizes from c1.medium (2 vCPU, 4 GB RAM) to c6.32xlarge (128 vCPU, 256 GB
RAM). Compute Optimized instances are priced at approximately 85% of General Purpose
cost per vCPU-hour because of their leaner RAM allocation.

Memory Optimized (m-series)
Low vCPU:RAM ratio (1:8 to 1:16). For in-memory caches (Redis, Memcached), large
relational databases, real-time streaming analytics, and any workload whose bottleneck
is available RAM. Sizes from m2.large (4 vCPU, 32 GB RAM) to m5.16xlarge (64 vCPU,
1 TB RAM). Extended memory sizes beyond 256 GB require a 30-day advance reservation
request via the MCP Capacity Planning portal.

Storage Optimized (s-series)
Local NVMe SSD storage is attached directly to the physical host, providing the highest
available sequential and random I/O throughput. Storage Optimized instances are
appropriate for distributed analytics engines (Spark, Flink), high-performance search
indexes (Elasticsearch, OpenSearch), and NoSQL databases where local disk speed is the
primary constraint. Because local NVMe storage is ephemeral (lost if the instance is
stopped or terminated), stateful workloads using s-series instances must replicate data
externally (to MCP-OBJ or MCP-RDS). See Section 5 for database options.

GPU Accelerated (gpu-series)
NVIDIA A100 (40 GB VRAM) and H100 (80 GB VRAM) GPUs for machine learning training,
large-scale inference, graphics rendering, and high-performance computing. Sizes from
gpu1.1x (1 A100) to gpu4.8x (8 H100s, 640 GB combined VRAM). GPU instances are
available only in AZ-USE1, AZ-USW1, AZ-EUC1, and AZ-APC1. Advance reservation is
strongly recommended for gpu3.x and larger; on-demand capacity is not guaranteed.

4.2 Pricing Models for Compute

MCP-VM instances are priced per second, billed with a 60-second minimum. Three pricing
models are available:

On-Demand
Pay per second with no commitment. The most flexible option; the most expensive.
Suitable for unpredictable workloads, development environments, and initial
capacity sizing before committing to a long-term plan.

Reserved Instances (RI)
A 1-year or 3-year commitment to use a specific instance type in a specific AZ.
Provides a 30% discount (1-year) or 50% discount (3-year) off On-Demand rates.
Reserved Instance commitments are non-cancellable and non-refundable, but may be
modified (to a different AZ within the same Region or to a larger instance type)
once per quarter.

Spot Instances
Unused Meridian capacity offered at 70–90% below On-Demand pricing. Spot Instances
may be preempted with a 2-minute warning when Meridian needs the capacity for
On-Demand or Reserved customers. Suitable for fault-tolerant, stateless workloads:
batch jobs, CI pipelines, rendering tasks. Never use Spot Instances for stateful
single-instance databases or interactive user-facing services without robust
checkpointing and rescheduling logic.

4.3 Persistent Block Storage (MCP-Block)

Each MCP-VM instance has ephemeral local storage for its root OS volume; this storage
is lost when the instance is stopped, terminated, or live-migrated. For persistent data,
attach one or more MCP-Block volumes:

  Standard Block (sb-type)       : Magnetic-backed; up to 16 TB per volume; max 500 IOPS.
                                   Suited for sequential workloads: log ingestion, cold data.
  SSD Block (ssdb-type)          : Flash-backed; up to 16 TB per volume; max 64,000 IOPS.
                                   Suited for general databases and application data.
  Provisioned IOPS (piops-type)  : SSD with guaranteed IOPS allocation from 1,000 to
                                   256,000 IOPS. Required for demanding OLTP databases.
                                   Priced by both storage size and provisioned IOPS.

MCP-Block volumes are AZ-local: a volume in AZ-USE1 can only be attached to an instance
in AZ-USE1. To move data across AZs, snapshot the volume and restore the snapshot in
the target AZ. Snapshot creation incurs no downtime; the volume remains readable and
writable during the snapshot process.

4.4 Auto-Scaling Groups

MCP Auto-Scaling Groups (ASGs) automatically adjust the number of running instances
in a group to match demand. Scaling policies:

  Target Tracking: Define a metric target (e.g., "keep average CPU utilization at 60%").
  MCP continuously monitors the metric and scales out (adds instances) or scales in
  (removes instances) to approach the target.

  Step Scaling: Define multiple scaling steps keyed to metric thresholds (e.g., "when
  CPU > 70% for 5 minutes, add 2 instances; when CPU > 90% for 2 minutes, add 5
  instances"). Allows non-linear scaling responses to demand spikes.

  Scheduled Scaling: Pre-provision capacity at known high-traffic windows. Example:
  "add 20 instances every Friday at 17:00 UTC and remove them at 23:00 UTC." Scheduled
  scaling is evaluated before metric-based scaling in each period.

Scale-out events are triggered within 60 seconds of a metric threshold breach and new
instances are typically available within 90 seconds using pre-built platform images.
Scale-in events observe a default cooldown period of 300 seconds to avoid capacity
thrashing. The cooldown can be adjusted per ASG.

4.5 Instance Lifecycle and Connectivity

Instances launched in a VPC subnet (see Section 6 for network configuration) receive a
private IP from the subnet's CIDR block. Internet-accessible instances additionally
receive a public IP or an Elastic IP (a static, account-owned public IP that persists
across instance replacement). Instances in private subnets reach the internet through
a NAT Gateway.

An instance in a running state can be: restarted (soft reboot; 5–60 seconds); stopped
(OS shutdown; restartable; ephemeral local disk cleared); or terminated (irreversible;
all ephemeral storage and the root block device are deleted unless "DeleteOnTermination"
is set to false for attached MCP-Block volumes).

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 5: DATABASE SERVICES (MCP-RDS)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

5.1 Managed Relational Databases

MCP-RDS is a fully managed relational database service supporting PostgreSQL 14/15/16,
MySQL 8.0/8.4, and MariaDB 10.11. Meridian manages OS patching, minor version upgrades,
automated backups, and multi-AZ replication. The customer manages schema design,
application logic, query optimization, and major version upgrades.

5.2 Instance Classes

MCP-RDS instances are available in the same g, c, and m families as MCP-VM but are
designated db.g1.small through db.m5.8xlarge to distinguish them from standalone VM
instances. RDS instances include attached SSD Block storage for the database volume;
the storage type (ssdb or piops) is selected at creation time and can be modified
with a maintenance window.

5.3 Multi-AZ Deployments

For production RDS instances, multi-AZ deployment is strongly recommended. In multi-AZ
mode, a synchronous standby replica is maintained in a second AZ. In the event of a
primary instance failure (hardware fault, AZ outage, or planned maintenance), MCP
promotes the standby to primary automatically; typical failover takes 60–120 seconds.
The application reconnects via the RDS Endpoint hostname, which is updated in DNS
during the failover; no IP address change is visible to the application.

5.4 Read Replicas

Up to 5 Read Replicas can be created per primary RDS instance, each in any AZ or Region
within the same account. Read Replicas receive asynchronous replication from the primary
and are suitable for read-heavy reporting queries, analytics, or as cross-Region disaster
recovery targets. Read Replicas can be promoted to standalone primary instances; promotion
is irreversible and severs the replication link.

5.5 Automated Backups and Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR)

MCP-RDS takes automated daily snapshots during the configurable backup window (default
03:00–05:00 UTC; must not overlap with the maintenance window). Automated snapshots
are retained for 7 days (Standard RDS) or up to 35 days (Enterprise RDS with Extended
Retention). Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR) allows restoring the database to any second
within the retention window, not just to a snapshot boundary. PITR restoration launches
a new RDS instance in the same Region; the original instance is not affected.

For cross-Region backup durability, enable the RDS Cross-Region Snapshot Export option.
Snapshots are replicated to a specified secondary Region with a typical lag under 15
minutes. Cross-Region snapshots are stored in MCP-OBJ Archive class in the destination
Region; restore fees apply (see Section 8.4). For the SLA commitments that apply to
MCP-RDS, see Section 9.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 6: NETWORKING AND CONTENT DELIVERY
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

6.1 Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

A Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) is an isolated virtual network provisioned for an account
within a single Region. All compute, database, and other network-attached resources are
launched inside a VPC. Each account receives a pre-created default VPC per Region with
a default CIDR block of 10.0.0.0/16. Custom VPCs with any RFC 1918 private address
range can be created: up to 10 VPCs per Region on Starter and Professional tiers, and
up to 50 VPCs per Region on Enterprise and Enterprise Plus.

A VPC is subdivided into subnets. Each subnet is associated with a single AZ and a
contiguous sub-range of the VPC's CIDR block. Subnets that route traffic through an
Internet Gateway (IGW) are public subnets; those without an IGW route are private
subnets. Instances in private subnets reach the internet via a NAT Gateway, which is
deployed in a public subnet and carries its own hourly and data-processing charges (see
Section 8.5 for NAT Gateway pricing).

6.2 Security Groups

Security Groups are stateful, instance-level firewalls. Each Security Group contains
inbound and outbound rules specifying a protocol (TCP, UDP, ICMP, or "all"), a port
range, and a source or destination (CIDR block or another Security Group). Return
traffic for established connections is automatically permitted regardless of outbound
rules — this is the "stateful" property. Security Groups can be attached to multiple
instances; up to 5 Security Groups may be attached to a single network interface.

6.3 Network Access Control Lists (NACLs)

NACLs are stateless, subnet-level firewalls. Unlike Security Groups, NACLs must
explicitly permit return traffic in both directions. NACL rules are numbered and
evaluated in ascending order; the first matching rule applies. MCP recommends Security
Groups as the primary firewall mechanism for most use cases; NACLs add a coarser layer
of subnet-level control for defense-in-depth scenarios.

6.4 Load Balancers

Application Load Balancer (ALB)
Layer 7 HTTP/HTTPS load balancing. Supports path-based and host-based routing,
WebSocket connections, HTTP/2, and integration with the MCP Web Application Firewall.
Each ALB has a DNS name that resolves to one or more dynamically assigned IP addresses;
use the DNS name in your DNS records (not IPs). ALBs automatically scale to handle
increases in traffic; no manual capacity planning is required.

Network Load Balancer (NLB)
Layer 4 TCP/UDP/TLS load balancing for extreme throughput and ultra-low latency.
Suitable for high-frequency trading, gaming backends, and VoIP. NLBs support static
Elastic IP addresses, allowing clients to whitelist a fixed set of IPs. NLBs are
zonal-aware: traffic is routed to targets in the same AZ by default, minimizing
cross-AZ data transfer costs.

6.5 Private Connectivity Options

Direct Connect
A dedicated private fiber connection from an on-premises facility to a Meridian Point
of Presence (POP). Available in 1 Gbps, 10 Gbps, and 100 Gbps circuit options.
Direct Connect bypasses the public internet, providing predictable latency and
eliminating exposure to internet routing anomalies. Physical provisioning lead time
is 45–90 days. Data transferred over Direct Connect is exempt from standard egress
charges and instead billed at the Direct Connect data transfer rate (see Section 8.5).

VPC Peering
Point-to-point private network connectivity between two VPCs, either within the same
Region or across Regions. Peered VPC traffic does not traverse the internet. Intra-Region
peering incurs no additional bandwidth charges; inter-Region peering is billed at
$0.01/GB in each direction.

Transit Gateway
A managed routing hub that connects multiple VPCs and on-premises Direct Connect
connections through a single gateway. Simplifies hub-and-spoke network topologies for
organizations with many VPCs. Transit Gateway attachment fee: $0.05/hour per VPC
attachment. Data processing fee: $0.02/GB.

6.6 Content Delivery Network (MCP-CDN)

MCP-CDN is a globally distributed edge caching service with 85 Points of Presence
(PoPs) across six continents. Edge PoPs cache static and dynamic content close to
end users, reducing the load on origin servers and improving page-load performance.
MCP-CDN integrates natively with MCP-OBJ buckets as origins.

A CDN Distribution defines one or more cache behaviors: a URL path pattern, an origin,
Cache-Control header handling, allowed HTTP methods, and geographic restrictions.
Default TTL is 86,400 seconds (24 hours); minimum TTL is 0. Cache invalidation
requests are accepted via the API and propagate to all 85 PoPs within 15 minutes.
CDN egress is billed at a reduced flat rate worldwide (see Section 8.5), separate from
the standard MCP-OBJ egress charges.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 7: SECURITY AND COMPLIANCE CONTROLS
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

7.1 Encryption at Rest

All data stored within MCP — including MCP-OBJ objects, MCP-Block volumes, MCP-RDS
database files, and snapshot data — is encrypted at rest using AES-256-GCM. Encryption
is always-on, mandatory, and cannot be disabled. By default, MCP manages the encryption
keys through its internal Key Management Service (MCP-KMS), using separate key material
per account and per Region.

Customer-Managed Keys (CMK)
On Enterprise and Enterprise Plus tiers, customers may supply their own encryption keys
through the Customer-Managed Key (CMK) feature. CMK keys may be stored in MCP-KMS
(Meridian-hosted HSM) or imported from an external HSM via the PKCS #11 interface.
On Enterprise Plus, FIPS 140-2 Level 3 HSM-backed CMKs are available for regulated
workloads.

Key Rotation
Rotating a CMK does not re-encrypt data that was already written under the old key.
New writes after the rotation date use the new key material; existing objects continue
to use the key material that was active when they were written. If re-encrypting
existing data under the new key is required, perform a server-side COPY operation to
a new bucket specifying the new CMK. This re-encrypt-by-copy approach allows
incremental migration without service interruption.

7.2 Encryption in Transit

All data in transit between MCP services and between customers and the MCP API is
encrypted using TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3. TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 are disabled on all MCP
API endpoints. The MCP SDK enforces TLS 1.2 minimum by default; downgrading the
minimum TLS version in SDK configuration is not supported.

Certificate management: MCP uses certificates issued by its own Certificate Authority
(Meridian Trust Services, a WebTrust-audited CA) for internal service-to-service
communication. All customer-facing API endpoints use certificates issued by a
globally recognized CA whose root is trusted by all major operating systems and
browsers. Certificate transparency logging is enabled for all MCP customer-facing
certificates.

7.3 Network Security and DDoS Protection

MCP includes baseline DDoS protection at the network edge (Layer 3/4 volumetric
protection) at no additional charge for all tiers. The Meridian DDoS Mitigation Layer
scrubs attack traffic before it reaches the customer's VPC, absorbing floods up to
10 Tbps in aggregate capacity at the platform level.

For application-layer (Layer 7) DDoS protection and web attack mitigation, the optional
MCP Web Application Firewall (WAF) module is available as an add-on to ALB distributions.
WAF provides OWASP Top 10 rule sets, rate limiting, IP reputation filtering, and custom
rules. WAF is priced as an add-on service; see Section 8.5.

7.4 Principle of Least Privilege

IAM policies must grant only the minimum permissions necessary for the intended purpose.
Recommended practices:

  • Never attach administrator-level policies to Service Accounts. Instead, scope each
    Service Account to specific actions on specific resources via Resource-Level Policies.
  • Use IAM Conditions to restrict access by source IP address, source VPC, time of day,
    or presence of MFA. For example, restrict write access to MCP-OBJ to requests
    originating from a specific VPC endpoint.
  • Audit IAM permissions quarterly using the IAM Access Advisor, which lists all
    permissions granted to an account or user and when each permission was last used.
    Remove unused permissions.
  • Rotate API key pairs every 90 days. Refer to Section 2.2 for key rotation procedures.
  • Enable MCP Activity Log for all API calls to detect anomalous access patterns.
    Activity Log records include caller identity, action, resource ARN, source IP,
    timestamp, and request/response size. Logs are stored in MCP-OBJ and can be
    forwarded to a SIEM via the Activity Log Streaming API.

7.5 Security Incident Response by Meridian

In the event of a detected security incident affecting the MCP infrastructure (for
example, unauthorized access to Meridian infrastructure or physical breach of a data
center), Meridian Technologies commits to the following response obligations:

  • Customer notification within 72 hours of internal incident discovery.
  • Preliminary incident summary within 5 business days.
  • Full incident report within 30 calendar days.
  • Cooperation with customer forensic investigations within the scope of MCP's access
    policies and applicable law.
  • Coordination with affected regulatory bodies as legally required.

Customer-side incidents (compromised API keys, misconfigured IAM policies, vulnerable
application code) are outside Meridian's responsibility boundary. MCP provides tooling
to mitigate customer-side incidents: API key revocation (immediate, via console or API),
Activity Log replay for forensic analysis, and VPC Flow Logs for network forensics.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 8: BILLING AND COST MANAGEMENT
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

8.1 Billing Cycle and Invoices

MCP bills in arrears on a monthly calendar cycle. Invoices are generated on the first
business day of each month for the preceding month's usage and are payable within 30
days of the invoice date. Invoices are delivered electronically to the billing contact
email on file and are also available for download in the MCP Web Console under
Billing → Invoices → [select month].

All amounts are billed in US Dollars (USD). Enterprise and Enterprise Plus customers
may request Multi-Currency Billing: invoices converted to EUR, GBP, JPY, CAD, or AUD
using the Bloomberg mid-market exchange rate as of the last business day of the billing
month. Multi-Currency Billing is for convenience only; the contractual obligation
remains denominated in USD.

Late payment: Invoices not paid within 30 days accrue a late fee of 1.5% per month
(18% annualized) on the outstanding balance. After 60 days of non-payment, MCP reserves
the right to suspend service. Suspended accounts retain data for 90 days after suspension
before it is deleted; this data-retention window during suspension is not subject to
an SLA (see Section 9.3 for SLA exclusions related to billing status).

8.2 Storage Overage Billing

This section specifies the billing rates for storage consumption exceeding the tier-
included quota. The quota limits and the notification schedule (including the 72-hour
grace period) are defined in Section 3.2.

When an account's MCP-OBJ Standard class storage usage in a Region exceeds the
tier-included quota at any point during a billing month, additional storage is billed
at the following per-GB-per-month rates:

  Starter Tier        :  $0.023 per GB per month (all overage)
  Professional Tier   :  $0.023 per GB per month (all overage)
  Enterprise Tier     :  $0.019 per GB per month (first 10 TB of overage)
                         $0.016 per GB per month (overage beyond 10 TB)
  Enterprise Plus     :  Custom rate per Order Form; typically $0.014–$0.018 per GB per month

These rates apply to Standard class overage only. Storage in Standard-IA, Archive, and
Archive Deep is billed at the base rates for those classes regardless of whether the
account has exceeded its Standard quota.

Billing is prorated to the day. If an account's usage exceeds quota on day 10 of a
30-day month and then drops below quota on day 22, only 12 days of overage charges apply,
calculated as: [(peak daily overage GB)] × [overage rate] × (12 / 30). MCP calculates
overage at the peak daily measurement taken at midnight UTC.

Important interaction with the grace period: The 72-hour grace period described in
Section 3.2 allows write operations to continue for up to 72 hours after the quota is
first exceeded. Overage charges accrue from the instant the quota was first exceeded,
not from the end of the grace period. If usage returns below the quota before the grace
period expires, only the hours/days of actual overage are billed. If the grace period
expires and usage remains above quota, writes are throttled in addition to ongoing
overage billing; a tier upgrade or manual storage reduction is required to resume full
write access.

8.3 Compute and Database Pricing

Compute (MCP-VM) On-Demand pricing varies by instance family, size, and Region. See
the MCP Pricing Calculator at pricing.meridiancloud.com for current per-second rates.
Reserved Instance discounts (30% for 1-year; 50% for 3-year) are applied automatically
based on active RI commitments. Spot Instance pricing fluctuates in real time based on
available capacity; the Spot Price History page in the console shows historical pricing.

MCP-RDS is priced per vCPU-hour of database instance plus per-GB-month of attached
storage, plus charges for automated snapshot storage beyond the included 100 GB per
instance. Multi-AZ RDS instances incur approximately 2× the per-hour charge of single-AZ
due to the standby replica. Read Replicas are priced identically to the instance type
they mirror.

8.4 Archive Restore Fees

When objects stored in Archive or Archive Deep class are restored for access, the
following fees apply per GB of data restored:

  Archive Standard Restore (3–12 hours)      : $0.03 per GB
  Archive Expedited Restore (1–5 hours)       : $0.09 per GB
  Archive Deep Bulk Restore (12–48 hours)     : $0.0025 per GB

The restored copy resides in Standard class for the duration of the restore window
(configurable from 1 to 30 days; default 48 hours). Standard class storage charges
accrue for the restored copy during the window.

8.5 Data Transfer, NAT Gateway, and Add-On Service Pricing

Outbound (Egress) Data Transfer
Inbound data transfer to MCP is always free. Outbound (egress) data transfer is billed
above the tier-included monthly allotment:

  Starter (1 TB included)      : $0.09/GB for usage 1–10 TB; $0.07/GB above 10 TB
  Professional (5 TB included) : $0.085/GB for usage 5–20 TB; $0.065/GB above 20 TB
  Enterprise (20 TB included)  : $0.07/GB for usage 20–100 TB; $0.05/GB above 100 TB

Direct Connect data transfer: $0.02/GB (all Regions; replaces standard egress billing
for traffic routed through Direct Connect). MCP-CDN egress: $0.025/GB worldwide (flat
rate regardless of destination; separate from MCP-OBJ egress charges).

NAT Gateway Pricing
NAT Gateway hourly charge: $0.045/hour per NAT Gateway. Data processing: $0.045/GB
processed through the NAT Gateway (in addition to standard egress charges if applicable).

Optional Add-On Services
  Web Application Firewall (WAF)        : $25/month per ALB distribution + $0.0005 per
                                          10,000 HTTP requests inspected.
  Advanced DDoS Protection (L7)         : $500/month per 10 Gbps of mitigated capacity.
                                          Enterprise and Enterprise Plus only.
  Enterprise Support (Premium)          : $1,500/month (Enterprise) or included (Enterprise Plus).
  Extended RDS Retention (35-day PITR)  : $0.02/GB per month of extended snapshot storage.
  RDS Cross-Region Snapshot Export      : $0.02/GB per month for stored replicated snapshots;
                                          standard restore fees apply if restored.

8.6 Cost Allocation and Tagging

Enterprise and Enterprise Plus accounts can apply up to 50 user-defined key:value tags
to any MCP resource. Tags propagate to invoice line items, enabling cost allocation by
team, project, environment, or cost center. Tags must be applied before the billing period
in which they are to appear; retroactive tagging for closed billing periods is not
supported. A cost explorer tool in the Web Console provides tag-based cost analysis.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 9: SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

9.1 SLA Coverage

Meridian Technologies guarantees the following monthly uptime percentages for MCP
services. SLA coverage applies only to paid tiers (Professional, Enterprise, Enterprise
Plus). Starter tier operates without a formal SLA on a best-effort basis. The uptime
percentage for a calendar month is calculated as:

  Uptime% = ((total minutes in month) − (downtime minutes)) / (total minutes in month) × 100

Downtime is defined as total unavailability of the affected service endpoint as measured
from three independent monitoring nodes operated by Meridian (US East, EU Central, and
Asia Pacific). Partial degradation (elevated latency or error rates above 1%) is not
counted as downtime unless service is fully unavailable.

  Service                             | SLA Uptime Target
  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  MCP-OBJ Standard (Regional Storage) | 99.99%
  MCP-OBJ Standard-IA                 | 99.90%
  MCP-OBJ Archive / Archive Deep      | 99.50%
  MCP-VM Compute Instances            | 99.95%
  MCP-Block Block Volumes             | 99.99%
  MCP-CDN Content Delivery Network    | 99.99%
  MCP-RDS Managed Databases           | 99.95%
  MCP Control Plane API               | 99.90%

9.2 Credit Schedule and Claims Process

When a service does not achieve its SLA uptime target in a calendar month, Meridian
issues service credits calculated as a percentage of the affected service's monthly charge.

Regional Storage SLA (MCP-OBJ Standard):
  Uptime 99.0% to 99.99%  → 10% credit of monthly Standard storage charges
  Uptime 95.0% to 99.0%   → 25% credit of monthly Standard storage charges
  Uptime below 95.0%       → 50% credit of monthly Standard storage charges

Note: an outage of 1 to 4 hours in a 30-day month results in uptime of approximately
99.86% to 99.77%, which falls in the 99.0%–99.99% band and therefore qualifies for
a 10% credit of that month's Standard storage charges. See Section 3.7 for the SLA
tier applicable to each storage class.

Compute SLA (MCP-VM):
  Uptime 99.0% to 99.95%  → 10% credit of affected instance charges
  Uptime 95.0% to 99.0%   → 30% credit of affected instance charges
  Uptime below 95.0%       → 50% credit of affected instance charges

MCP-RDS SLA:
  Uptime 99.0% to 99.95%  → 10% credit of affected RDS instance charges
  Uptime 95.0% to 99.0%   → 30% credit of affected RDS instance charges
  Uptime below 95.0%       → 50% credit of affected RDS instance charges

Control Plane API SLA:
  Uptime 99.0% to 99.9%   → 10% credit of all platform charges that billing month
  Uptime below 99.0%       → 25% credit of all platform charges that billing month

All credits are capped at 50% of the affected service's monthly charge and cannot be
exchanged for cash refunds. Credits are applied to the next invoice following approval.

Credit Claim Procedure
To claim a credit, an authorized account representative must submit a claim through the
MCP Support Portal (support.meridiancloud.com → Billing → SLA Credit Request) within
30 calendar days of the end of the billing month in which the incident occurred. The
submission must include:
  1. Account ID and billing email address.
  2. Affected service and Region/AZ.
  3. Approximate start and end timestamps of the outage (UTC).
  4. Error codes or log excerpts demonstrating the service failure.
  5. The name and email of the authorized account representative submitting the claim.

Claims submitted more than 30 calendar days after the end of the affected billing month
are not eligible for credit. Meridian will evaluate and respond to claims within 15
business days of receipt. If a claim is approved, the credit is applied to the next
monthly invoice; it does not reduce any outstanding balance.

9.3 SLA Exclusions

The SLA commitments in this section do not apply to:
  • Scheduled maintenance windows announced at least 5 business days in advance.
  • Service degradation caused by customer configuration errors (misconfigured VPC routes,
    IAM policies, Security Groups, or application-level errors).
  • Force majeure events beyond Meridian's reasonable control.
  • Starter tier accounts, which have no SLA.
  • Accounts suspended for non-payment (see Section 8.1 for suspension policy).
  • Third-party service failures outside MCP's network boundary (customer ISP outages).

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 10: DISASTER RECOVERY AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

10.1 Meridian's Infrastructure Resilience

Each MCP Availability Zone is designed to N+1 power redundancy: dual UPS systems with
separate grid feeds from two independent electrical substations, plus diesel generator
backup rated for 72 hours of autonomous operation per full-load cycle. Generator fuel
is stored on site and replenished on a weekly schedule. Physical cooling systems are
redundant to N+2 for critical zones (AZ-USE1, AZ-EUC1, AZ-APC1) and N+1 for the
remaining AZs.

AZ boundaries are designed to isolate failures: a hardware fault, power fault, or
cooling failure in one AZ does not cascade to a sibling AZ in the same Region. The
MCP internal backbone maintains connectivity between AZs at all times; if a backbone
link fails, traffic is automatically rerouted over redundant paths within 500 ms.

10.2 Shared Responsibility Model

MCP operates on a shared responsibility model for disaster recovery and security:

Meridian Technologies is responsible for:
  • Physical infrastructure availability, including power, cooling, and network fabric.
  • Hypervisor and virtualization layer security and availability.
  • Managed service availability (MCP-RDS automated backups, multi-AZ failover).
  • Encryption at rest and in transit for all MCP-managed data.
  • DDoS mitigation at the network edge.

The Customer is responsible for:
  • Data backup strategy beyond what MCP provides by default.
  • Cross-AZ and cross-Region replication configuration for active workloads.
  • Application-level fault tolerance (deploying across multiple AZs or Regions).
  • IAM policy correctness and key security.
  • Security of data within customer VPCs, including application-layer vulnerabilities.

MCP provides tooling (CRR for object storage, multi-AZ RDS, volume snapshots, lifecycle
rules) to help customers meet their responsibilities, but these tools must be actively
configured by the customer. Meridian does not configure DR controls on behalf of
customers unless an explicit managed DR service contract is in place.

10.3 Backup and Recovery Options for MCP-OBJ

MCP-OBJ Standard and Standard-IA storage classes provide eleven-nines durability through
automatic three-way AZ replication within a Region. This protects against hardware
failures and AZ outages but does not protect against accidental deletion, ransomware
encryption, or application-level logical corruption.

Recommended protections against deletion and corruption:

Versioning (described in Section 3.4): Retains all historical versions. Accidentally
deleted objects are recoverable by removing the Delete Marker. Accidentally overwritten
objects are recoverable by reverting to a previous version. Versioning storage costs
accumulate; use Lifecycle Rules (Section 3.6) to transition old versions to Archive
class automatically.

Cross-Region Replication (CRR): Automatically replicates newly written objects to a
destination bucket in a secondary Region. CRR covers new writes only; existing objects
at CRR enable time are not replicated. Replication lag is typically under 60 seconds
for objects under 100 MB and under 15 minutes for objects up to 5 GB.

Manual Snapshots via COPY: For point-in-time archives of critical data sets, use a
scheduled job to COPY objects to a dedicated archive bucket with Object Locking enabled,
providing immutable snapshots protected from deletion or modification.

10.4 Disaster Recovery Architecture Tiers

Organizations should select a DR tier based on the Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and
Recovery Point Objective (RPO) their business requires:

Tier 1 — Active-Active Multi-Region (RTO < 5 min, RPO < 1 min)
Both Regions serve live traffic at all times. Data is replicated synchronously (for
databases) or with minimal asynchronous lag (for object storage). A global load balancer
(MCP-CDN or Global Traffic Manager) distributes traffic between Regions and detects
failures within seconds, redirecting traffic to the healthy Region automatically. Highest
cost; recommended for systems where any downtime causes immediate and significant
business impact.

Tier 2 — Active-Passive (Warm Standby) (RTO 15–30 min, RPO < 5 min)
A reduced-capacity standby environment is maintained in a secondary Region, updated
via CRR and RDS Cross-Region Snapshot Export. On a primary Region failure, the standby
is scaled up and DNS is updated to point to it. Requires automated failover scripting
and periodic DR drills to validate the RTO target.

Tier 3 — Backup and Restore (RTO hours, RPO daily)
The simplest and cheapest approach: daily automated RDS snapshots plus ad-hoc MCP-OBJ
versioning. Recovery means provisioning a fresh environment from scratch in a secondary
Region and restoring from the most recent backup. Appropriate for dev/test and non-time-
critical workloads.

10.5 DR Testing Requirements

Meridian recommends that customers performing quarterly DR tests document the test results
and store them in a location accessible during a real disaster (i.e., in a Region
different from the one being tested). Meridian offers an optional DR Validation Service
(Enterprise and Enterprise Plus) where Meridian engineers guide customers through a
structured tabletop exercise and simulated failover. Contact your TAM to schedule.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 11: API REFERENCE
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

11.1 Control Plane API Overview

The MCP Control Plane API is a RESTful API that accepts and returns JSON over HTTPS.
All API interactions are version-prefixed. The current API version is v4:

  Base URL: https://api.meridiancloud.com/v4/

Authentication is required on every request. Accepted credential formats:

  JWT Bearer Token: Authorization: Bearer <jwt>
  API Key Pair (HMAC-signed): Authorization: MCP-HMAC <access-key-id>/<timestamp>/<signature>

Rate limits apply per account:
  Enterprise tier : 100 requests/second (burst to 500 for up to 5 seconds)
  Professional    : 20 requests/second
  Starter         : 5 requests/second

Storage API (S3-compatible endpoint: https://s3.meridiancloud.com):
  5,500 GET/HEAD requests/second per prefix
  3,500 PUT/POST/DELETE/COPY requests/second per prefix

For higher throughput, distribute objects across multiple key prefixes.

11.2 Core REST Endpoints

Compute (MCP-VM):
  GET    /v4/compute/instances              — list all instances (paginated)
  POST   /v4/compute/instances              — launch a new instance
  GET    /v4/compute/instances/{id}         — describe a specific instance
  PATCH  /v4/compute/instances/{id}         — modify instance attributes (e.g., security groups)
  POST   /v4/compute/instances/{id}/stop    — stop a running instance
  POST   /v4/compute/instances/{id}/start   — start a stopped instance
  DELETE /v4/compute/instances/{id}         — terminate an instance

Storage Buckets:
  GET    /v4/storage/buckets                — list buckets in the account
  PUT    /v4/storage/buckets/{name}         — create a bucket
  GET    /v4/storage/buckets/{name}         — describe bucket (metadata only)
  DELETE /v4/storage/buckets/{name}         — delete a bucket (must be empty first)

Storage Objects (also accessible via the S3-compatible endpoint):
  GET    /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/objects               — list objects (paginated)
  PUT    /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/objects/{key}         — upload object (≤5 GB)
  GET    /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/objects/{key}         — download object
  HEAD   /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/objects/{key}         — retrieve object metadata
  DELETE /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/objects/{key}         — delete object or create delete marker
  POST   /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/objects/{key}/restore — initiate Archive restore

IAM:
  GET    /v4/iam/users                      — list sub-accounts and service accounts
  POST   /v4/iam/users                      — create a new user
  DELETE /v4/iam/users/{id}                 — delete a user
  GET    /v4/iam/policies                   — list IAM policies
  POST   /v4/iam/policies                   — create an IAM policy
  POST   /v4/iam/users/{id}/attach-policy   — attach a policy to a user

11.3 Multipart Upload API

Objects larger than 5 GB must use the Multipart Upload API. The procedure:

  1. Initiate Upload
     POST /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/multipart
     Body: {"key": "large-file.dat", "storageClass": "standard"}
     Response: {"uploadId": "mpu-abc123xyz"}

  2. Upload Parts (repeat for each part)
     PUT /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/multipart/{uploadId}/parts/{partNumber}
     Part numbers 1–10,000. Each part must be 5 MB – 5 GB except the last.
     Response: {"etag": "abc123...", "partNumber": N}

  3. Complete Upload
     POST /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/multipart/{uploadId}/complete
     Body: {"parts": [{"partNumber": 1, "etag": "..."}, ...]}
     Response: 200 OK with final object metadata.

  4. Abort Upload (cancel and clean up partial parts)
     DELETE /v4/storage/buckets/{name}/multipart/{uploadId}

Incomplete multipart uploads accumulate storage charges for uploaded parts. Use a
Lifecycle Rule (see Section 3.6) to automatically abort multipart uploads older than
N days (recommended: 7 days) to avoid unintended cost.

11.4 Pagination

List endpoints return paginated results. The response includes a nextToken field when
more results exist. Pass nextToken as a query parameter in the subsequent request:

  GET /v4/compute/instances?nextToken=eyJpZCI6ImlkLTEyMyJ9&maxResults=100

maxResults defaults to 100 and the maximum allowed value is 1,000. The complete result
set must be retrieved by following the nextToken chain; partial iteration may miss
recently created resources.

11.5 Error Responses

All error responses use the standard envelope:
  {"error": {"code": "StorageQuotaExceeded", "message": "...", "requestId": "req-abc123"}}

Common error codes:
  400 InvalidRequest       : Request body malformed or missing required fields.
  401 Unauthorized         : Authentication credential absent or invalid.
  403 Forbidden            : Valid credential, but insufficient permissions.
  404 NotFound             : Resource does not exist or is not accessible to the caller.
  429 RateLimitExceeded    : Request rate exceeds the account's quota.
  507 InsufficientStorage  : Account's storage quota exceeded and grace period expired.
  500 InternalError        : Transient internal error; safe to retry with exponential backoff.
  503 ServiceUnavailable   : Service temporarily unavailable; retry with backoff.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 12: SUPPORT AND INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

12.1 Support Tiers

Basic Support (all tiers, included)
  • Access to self-service documentation at docs.meridiancloud.com.
  • Community forums at community.meridiancloud.com.
  • Ticket submission via the MCP Support Portal for Severity 3 and Severity 4 issues.
  • Response target: 2 business days for Severity 3; 5 business days for Severity 4.

Standard Support (Professional tier and above, included)
  • 24/7 ticket submission for all severity levels.
  • Response SLAs: Severity 1 (production outage) within 1 hour; Severity 2 (impaired)
    within 4 hours; Severity 3 within 1 business day; Severity 4 within 2 business days.
  • Access to technical support engineers for architecture reviews (2 per year included).

Premium Support (Enterprise Plus, included; Enterprise, add-on at $1,500/month)
  • 24/7 phone and live-chat access to senior Tier 3 engineers.
  • Named Technical Account Manager for proactive guidance and planning.
  • Quarterly infrastructure health reviews.
  • Response SLAs: Severity 1 within 15 minutes; Severity 2 within 1 hour.

12.2 Severity Classification

Severity 1 (Critical): Complete service outage blocking all production use. Examples:
all VMs unreachable, all storage operations failing, Control Plane API returning 5xx
for all requests. An active Sev1 requires the customer to designate an on-call
engineer to participate in a bridge call with MCP support within 30 minutes of the
ticket being assigned to a Meridian engineer.

Severity 2 (High): Significant degradation with partial functionality remaining. Examples:
elevated API error rates above 5%, one AZ in a multi-AZ deployment offline, storage
throughput degraded by more than 50%.

Severity 3 (Medium): Non-urgent issues with a workaround available. Examples: lifecycle
rule execution delayed by more than 24 hours, CDN cache invalidation delayed beyond
the 15-minute SLA, billing export function returning errors.

Severity 4 (Low): Questions, documentation requests, and feature suggestions. No
production impact.

12.3 Scheduled Maintenance

MCP performs routine maintenance including firmware updates, security patching, and
infrastructure upgrades on a regular schedule:

  AZ-USE1, AZ-USE2   : Sunday 02:00–06:00 UTC
  AZ-USW1, AZ-USW2   : Sunday 08:00–12:00 UTC
  AZ-EUC1, AZ-EUC2   : Saturday 22:00–02:00 UTC (next day)
  AZ-EUW1            : Saturday 23:00–03:00 UTC (next day)
  AZ-APC1, AZ-APC2   : Saturday 14:00–18:00 UTC

Maintenance that may interrupt service is announced at least 5 business days in advance
via email to maintenance notification contacts and on the MCP Status page
(status.meridiancloud.com). Emergency security-critical maintenance may be performed
with shorter notice; MCP will provide maximum feasible advance notice.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 13: COMPLIANCE AND DATA GOVERNANCE
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

13.1 Certifications and Attestations

Meridian Technologies maintains the following certifications, renewed annually or on
the frequency required by each standard:

  ISO/IEC 27001:2022  (Information Security Management System) — all Regions
  ISO/IEC 27017:2015  (Cloud Security Controls) — all Regions
  ISO/IEC 27018:2019  (PII in Public Cloud) — all Regions
  SOC 2 Type II       (Security, Availability, Confidentiality) — all Regions
  SOC 3               (Public summary of SOC 2 findings) — all Regions
  PCI DSS Level 1     (Payment Card Industry) — US East and EU Central Regions
  HIPAA BAA           (Business Associate Agreement available for qualifying customers)
  FedRAMP Moderate    (US East Region, AZ-USE1 and AZ-USE2 only)

Audit reports, penetration test summaries, and the Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls
Matrix (CAIQ) self-assessment are available to customers under NDA from the MCP Compliance
Portal at compliance.meridiancloud.com.

13.2 GDPR and European Data Protection

Meridian Technologies acts as a Data Processor under the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) when processing personal data on behalf of customers established in the EEA. For
account-level data (contact details, billing information), Meridian acts as Data Controller.

For GDPR-compliant use of MCP:
  • Select EU Central or EU West as the deployment Region to ensure personal data remains
    within the EEA throughout its lifecycle.
  • Execute a Data Processing Agreement (DPA) with Meridian via the Web Console
    (Account → Legal → Data Processing Agreement). The DPA incorporates Standard
    Contractual Clauses (SCCs) for data transfers outside the EEA.
  • Use MCP Activity Log and Object Metadata to fulfill data subject access requests
    (DSAR) and erasure requests within regulatory deadlines.
  • Configure Lifecycle Rules (Section 3.6) and Object Locking (Section 3.4) to enforce
    data retention limits and prevent premature deletion of required records.

13.3 Impact of MFA Disablement on Compliance Attestation

As noted in Section 2.4, disabling MFA enforcement on tiers where it is required may
affect compliance attestation status. Specifically:

  SOC 2 Trust Services Criteria CC6.1 requires that access to the system is restricted
  through the use of strong authentication. Meridian's SOC 2 auditors require MFA
  enforcement for all console logins. If a customer's account-level MFA enforcement
  is disabled and an auditor reviews the shared responsibility evidence, the absence
  of MFA enforcement may result in a qualified opinion on controls relying on MCP's
  authentication posture.

  ISO 27001 Control A.9.4.2 (Secure log-on procedures) requires multi-factor
  authentication for privileged access. Disabling MFA for Root Account or IAM Admin
  logins will require a documented compensating control or exception justification.

Customers in regulated industries (finance, healthcare, government) are strongly advised
to maintain MFA enforcement and to engage their compliance team before changing any
authentication policy. The Meridian Compliance team (compliance@meridiancloud.com) is
available to discuss control mapping for specific regulatory frameworks.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 14: TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

14.1 Storage: 403 Forbidden on Object Access

Cause: The calling identity lacks the required IAM permission for the action being
attempted (e.g., storage:GetObject, storage:PutObject), or the resource policy on
the bucket denies access.

Resolution steps:
  1. Check the IAM policy attached to the calling user or service account. Verify that
     the relevant action (storage:GetObject or storage:PutObject) is explicitly allowed
     on the target resource ARN.
  2. Check the bucket resource policy (if any). A Deny in a resource policy overrides an
     Allow in an IAM policy.
  3. If using a VPC Endpoint for storage, verify that the endpoint policy permits the
     action. VPC Endpoint policies are separate from both IAM and bucket policies.
  4. Check MCP Activity Log for the specific request. The log entry includes the evaluation
     reason for the 403 (e.g., "implicit deny", "explicit deny from bucket policy").
  5. If CMK is configured on the bucket, verify that the calling identity has the
     kms:Decrypt permission on the CMK.

14.2 Storage: 507 Insufficient Storage on PUT

Cause: The account's MCP-OBJ storage quota has been exceeded and the 72-hour grace
period has expired. As described in Section 3.2, write operations are throttled after
the grace period ends. Read operations (GET, HEAD, LIST) remain fully functional.

Resolution options:
  A. Delete or archive sufficient objects to bring total usage below the included quota.
     Transitioning objects to Archive or Archive Deep via Lifecycle Rules (Section 3.6)
     reduces Standard class usage immediately, freeing write capacity.
  B. Upgrade the service tier to obtain a higher included storage quota. Contact the
     MCP sales team or upgrade via the Web Console (Account → Plan → Upgrade).
  C. For Enterprise Plus customers: contact your TAM to negotiate a temporary quota
     increase while a permanent solution is implemented.

14.3 Compute: Instance Fails to Launch

Cause: Insufficient capacity, missing IAM permissions, misconfigured VPC, or invalid
launch configuration.

Resolution steps:
  1. Check the Launch error code in the Web Console or the API response. Common codes:
       InsufficientCapacity — the requested instance type is unavailable in this AZ.
       InvalidAMI           — the specified image does not exist or is not accessible.
       SubnetFull           — the subnet has no remaining IP addresses in its CIDR range.
       Forbidden            — the calling identity lacks compute:LaunchInstance permission.
  2. For InsufficientCapacity: retry in a different AZ within the same Region (instance
     type capacity is independent per AZ) or try a different instance size.
  3. For SubnetFull: add a new subnet with a larger CIDR block in the same AZ, or release
     unused Elastic IPs and stop instances that are no longer needed.

14.4 Authentication: JWT Token Rejected with 401

Cause: Token has expired, was issued for a different audience, or was signed with a
revoked key.

Resolution steps:
  1. Verify the token expiry. JWT tokens have a default TTL of 30 minutes. If using
     the MCP SDK, ensure the auto-refresh mechanism is enabled.
  2. Verify the token audience (aud claim) matches the API endpoint being called.
  3. If the token was issued before an API key rotation, the signing key may no longer
     be valid. Generate a new token using the updated key pair.
  4. If using SSO, check that your IdP's session has not expired and re-authenticate
     through the SSO flow.

14.5 Billing: Unexpected Overage Charges

Cause: Storage usage exceeded the tier-included quota. Refer to Section 3.2 for the
notification schedule and Section 8.2 for the overage billing rates.

Resolution steps:
  1. Review the Storage Usage report in the Web Console (Billing → Usage → Storage)
     to identify when usage exceeded the quota and by how much.
  2. Enable Lifecycle Rules on high-growth buckets to automatically transition or expire
     old objects and keep Standard class usage within bounds.
  3. Enable storage usage alerts (80%, 95%, 100% of quota) to ensure timely notification.
     If alerts were not received, verify the billing contact email and notification
     channel configuration.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
SECTION 15: GLOSSARY OF TERMS
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Archive Deep: The coldest MCP-OBJ storage class. 180-day minimum retention. Bulk
Restore only (12–48 hours). 99.0% monthly availability. See Section 3.3.

Archive: A cold MCP-OBJ storage class. 90-day minimum retention. Standard or Expedited
Restore. 99.5% monthly availability. See Section 3.3.

Auto-Scaling Group (ASG): A managed group of MCP-VM instances that automatically
scales in response to demand, scheduled events, or metric thresholds. See Section 4.4.

Availability Zone (AZ): A physically separate data center within an MCP Region,
connected to sibling AZs by high-bandwidth, low-latency private networking.

Bucket: A logical container for objects in MCP-OBJ, with a globally unique Region-scoped
name. See Section 3.1.

CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing): Notation for IP address ranges (e.g., 10.0.0.0/16).

Content Delivery Network (CDN): The MCP-CDN edge caching service with 85+ global PoPs.
See Section 6.6.

Credit (SLA): A monetary reduction applied to a future MCP invoice when Meridian fails
to meet an SLA commitment. Credits cannot be exchanged for cash. See Section 9.2.

Cross-Region Replication (CRR): Asynchronous replication of MCP-OBJ objects to a
bucket in a different Region. See Section 10.3.

Customer-Managed Key (CMK): An encryption key supplied by the customer and managed
through MCP-KMS or an external HSM. See Section 7.1.

Delete Marker: A placeholder object version created when an object in a versioning-enabled
bucket is deleted without specifying a VersionId. Makes the key invisible to standard
GETs. See Section 3.4.

Direct Connect: A dedicated private fiber connection between an on-premises facility
and an MCP Point of Presence. See Section 6.5.

Elastic IP: A static public IP address owned by an account that can be attached to or
detached from instances. See Section 4.5.

FedRAMP: Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program. MCP holds FedRAMP Moderate
for US East Region (AZ-USE1, AZ-USE2). See Section 13.1.

IAM (Identity and Access Management): MCP's system for managing user identities and
access permissions using the MCP Policy Language. See Section 2.3.

Instance: A virtual machine launched on MCP-VM, defined by an instance family and size.
See Section 4.1.

JWT (JSON Web Token): A short-lived cryptographically signed token used for API
authentication, with a TTL of 15–60 minutes. See Section 2.5.

Lifecycle Rule: A bucket-level policy that automatically transitions or expires objects
based on age and filters. See Section 3.6.

MCP-Block: Meridian's persistent block storage service for attachment to MCP-VM instances.
See Section 4.3.

MCP-CDN: Meridian's global content delivery network. See Section 6.6.

MCP-KMS: Meridian's internal Key Management Service for managing encryption keys at rest.

MCP-OBJ: Meridian's S3-compatible object storage service. See Section 3.

MCP-RDS: Meridian's managed relational database service. See Section 5.

MCP-VM: Meridian's virtual machine compute service. See Section 4.

MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication): A login requirement for a second proof of identity
(hardware key, TOTP, or SSO) beyond a password. See Section 2.4.

Multi-AZ: A deployment mode where a primary resource has a synchronous standby in a
second Availability Zone, enabling automatic failover. See Section 5.3.

NAT Gateway: A managed network address translation service allowing instances in private
subnets to initiate outbound internet connections. See Section 6.1.

Object Locking (WORM): A bucket-level feature preventing deletion or overwrite of object
versions before a specified retention date. Two modes: Governance and Compliance.
See Section 3.4.

PIOPS (Provisioned IOPS): A storage type for MCP-Block volumes with a guaranteed IOPS
allocation. See Section 4.3.

Point of Presence (PoP): An MCP-CDN edge node where content is cached for local delivery.

Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR): The ability to restore an MCP-RDS database to any second
within the backup retention window. See Section 5.5.

Region: A geographic area containing two or more Availability Zones. Customer data stays
in the selected Region unless cross-Region features are explicitly enabled.

Reserved Instance (RI): A 1-year or 3-year commitment to use a specific instance type,
yielding a 30% or 50% discount off On-Demand pricing. See Section 4.2.

Root Account: The master billing account for an MCP subscription. Has unrestricted access.
See Section 2.1.

Service Account: A non-human IAM principal for programmatic access. Uses API key pairs
or short-lived JWTs. Cannot log into the console. See Section 2.1.

SLA (Service Level Agreement): Meridian's contractual uptime commitment for each MCP
service, with defined credit remedies for unmet commitments. See Section 9.

Spot Instance: An MCP-VM instance available at deep discount, subject to preemption.
See Section 4.2.

Standard Storage Class: The default MCP-OBJ storage class. 99.99% monthly availability.
No retrieval fee. See Section 3.3.

Standard-IA (Infrequent Access): A reduced-price MCP-OBJ storage class for data accessed
less than once per month. 30-day minimum duration. Retrieval fee applies. See Section 3.3.

Sub-Account (IAM User): A scoped user identity created under a Root Account, with
permissions defined by attached IAM policies. See Section 2.1.

Technical Account Manager (TAM): A dedicated Meridian engineer assigned to Enterprise
and Enterprise Plus customers for proactive guidance. See Section 12.1.

Transit Gateway: A managed routing hub connecting multiple VPCs and on-premises networks.
See Section 6.5.

VPC (Virtual Private Cloud): An isolated virtual network within a single MCP Region.
See Section 6.1.

VPC Peering: Point-to-point private connectivity between two VPCs. See Section 6.5.

VersionId: A unique identifier assigned to each version of an object in a versioning-
enabled bucket. Required to access or delete specific historical versions. See Section 3.4.

WORM (Write Once Read Many): See Object Locking.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
END OF DOCUMENT
Meridian Cloud Platform Technical Reference Manual — Version 4.2
Copyright © 2026 Meridian Technologies Inc. All rights reserved.
docs.meridiancloud.com | support.meridiancloud.com | compliance.meridiancloud.com
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
